

# Wizard V Duke 


Alston Wheezemont.

"Go on, get in there and tell me what they say."

"Isn't that wrong?" I asked, "eavesdropping?"

"I'm not asking you to climb up in to the eaves. I'm asking you to crawl under the couch. Totally different."

"Isn't that dangerous?" I asked, more the point.

"Ah, if ya caught, just act scared. Everyone has pity on a scared kid. That's Number One."

"What's Rule Number Two? "




---

What do we need to know to get this story off to a start?

Business isn't what it once was. 

A wizard has taken up residence three days from the town and creates horrible creatures in the earth

They rove outside his dungeon and attack travelers. 

This has attracted adventurers. 

----

Add a majordomo announcing people as they come in. 

"A man appearing from nowhere

Messers Rudolph's and Fuad, herders of goats!

Oddna, a wizard of considerable evil

-Oddna gives him a look-

Who's reputation is must maligned 

-Oddna complains-

And is much beset upon by itinerant adventurers

--get out

----



# Chapter One

In the middle of nowhere, there is, somewhat paradoxically, a place that on the road to everywhere. It has evolved from a crossroads to a trading post, from a trading post to a village, from a village into a town, from town into a city and from a city into something that was almost, but not quite big enough to be a kingdom.

To be sure the place is not without it's charms, but we're not to discover them just yet. So let it suffice to point out that, at the center of the city there was a river running through a deep canyon. And, in the very center of the river, rising up to above the level of the canyon, there was a rock. It was a spire of unyielding, unrepentant granite that seemed as arrogant and undeniable as life it self. 

For centuries, the river that had cut the canyon had torn at this spire of rock attempting to remove it, topple it, reduce it to bits of gravel or specks of dust that the river knew belonged at the bottom of a far, far off sea. 

But the rock remained, and the river persevered. And for all the centuries they had both been at it, only one consequence could be observed. A thick mist billowed from the depths of the canyon at all times and created around the rock a persistent pearl of mist. 

And rising from this pearl is a tower. And at the very center of this tower, on the very center of the rock, sat a man who very much wanted to be a King. Worse than wanted, in fact, for he had always been raised to believe that he would one day be a King. But through a cruel mixture of inbreeding, bad table manners, internecine politics and just plain bad luck, he had been stuck with Robrecht. The nothing in the middle of everywhere. 

The Duke yawned mightily, then thought the better of it. He was holding court, such as it was. And here in the remote and unimpressive Dutchy of Robrecht, that mean that he sat on an uncomfortable wooden chair and settled disputes. It was, in this mountainous, benighted place 

"He had advantage of my goat, sire. And I desire compensation," said the cross-eyed Goatherd who stood before him. Well, one of the goatherds it appeared. At the end of his statement he cast a terrible glare at what must surely be another goatherd. Who else would wear a goat-skin helmet. Was the helmet, the Duke wondered, the man's idea of formal dress?

"Sire," prompted the goatherd 

"Advantage?" asked the Duke, unable, with his formal, courtly upbringing, to understand how having a goat might be an advantage. It's not that there were no goats in the Mercian Empire. It's that he had been insulated from all creatures that were shaggy and uncultured from the time he had left the womb.

"He had knowledge of my best NannyGoat."

"Knowledge? I don't understand, of course he has knowledge of your animal," he said, glancing at the dull-eyed, leather-helmeted man who was being accuse of bestiality, "he is a fellow-goatherd, is he not."

"No my lord," said the cross-eyed man, blushing with the weight of what he must now make painfully obvious. "He..." and he thrust 


"Oh. OH!" said the Duke, the facts of the case finally becoming clear. "Really. What was it like?" asked the Duke.

The guard to his immediate left, began a coughing fit. This was a pre-arranged signal from the the Duke's High Councilor that the Duke was getting dangerously off track again. The Duke's guards did a lot of coughing. 

"Very well," the Duke said, looking directly at the guard, and behind him his High Councilor."I command you to violate one of his sheep."

"WHAT!"

"Yes, yes, my good man, that is justice. He has had one of yours, so you must have one of his. An eye for an eye and a ewe for a ewe, you see." The Duke said, feeling awfully proud of himself. But by the look on the goatherd's face, he could see that his legal acumen was lost on this man. 

The guard continued to cough. The Duke became worried about how might talk his way out of his ruling without seemingly he he was contradicting himself. For that was the only mortal sin a person in power might truly commit. Seeming to contradict themselves. 

But why he should worry about it with these people he couldn't understand. What taboo had he crossed. It was a perfectly logical explanation. He was a perfectly logical ruler. And why did ruler's have to explain themselves to their subjects anyway? Maybe it was just Dukes. He was pretty sure if he was a King he wouldn't have had to explain himself to...

The Wizard appeared in the great hall. And this is not to say he made an entrance. One minute there was an empty space on the cold stone floor and the next, there he stood. Shaven Pate, black robes dark circles under his eyes, strange stains underneath his fingertips -- one moment he wasn't there, and the next, he was. The Wizard Appeared.  

There was, naturally, a gasp as fawners and onlookers jumped backwards from the man who had appeared in their midst, smelling a brimstone and alchemy.

"Sorry for the intrusion, Weaveeston. I need a word."

Everyone in in the room gasped again. This magical popping-in man had not been announced, he had not been admitted, had not be recognized, had not bowed and worst of all he had not addressed the Duke by his title. He had called him by his first name.

"Must it be now?" asked the Duke. This was also shocking. Royalty asking an interloper for permission The general feeling among the crowd was that this was a beheading offense. And since everyone in Robrecht liked a good execution, they watched with great expectations. 

But the Duke did not follow the time honored formula. Instead of crying out, "Off with his head!" at the top of his voice, he meekly asked, "Must it be now." 

Another gasp. What was this? Royalty asking an interloper for permission? Now both of the Duke's flanking guards were coughing vigorously. And, standing by the tapestry, the High Councilor turned a deeper, more indignant shade of purple than this part of the world had seen in many years. 

"Oh," said the wizard. "This isn't convenient for you. I am sorry. Pray, continue with your amusements. My time is of no conseq–" In mid-sentence, with a wave of his hand he turned the cross-eyed goat herd in a rather lovely looking brown and white nannygoat. Everyone in the room, including the Duke this time, gasped in fear. Well, everyone except the Goatherd in the leather helmet. He smiled at the newly minted goat with an unwholesome gleam in his eye. As he rubbed his hand along the length of rope that held up his trousers, the Nanny goat began bleating fearfully.

Over the bleating the Wizard said, "Please, carry on."

No one moved. The only sound was the clacking of the goat's hooves as she/he wisely made for the exit as fast as her newly made and terribly confused legs would carry her. 

After a pause, the Duke came to his senses. "Guards," he began. But he needed say no more than that. The stout, mailed fellow on his right, drew his sword and advanced towards the wizard. 

The wizard watched as the the guard raised his razor sharp sword high above his right shoulder. The prospect should have been terrifying, for clearly that sword was going to come down shortly and twains, as they say, would be cleft. 

"Tiresome," muttered the Wizard. He waved his hands, and every bit of metal on the advancing guard was suddenly and irresistibly attracted to the guard's mail shirt. The guard folded in upon himself and collapsed to the floor. 

Gasp, said the room again.

Exasperated that the crowd wasn't getting the point, the Wizard cried, "Still gasping? What do you want, for me to strike someone down with a pillar of flame? What does it take? Shall I underline it for you? I AM A HORRIBLE MAN. ODDNA THE TERRIBLE. Master of the arcane arts and eldrich mysteries... so on and so forth, so GIVE ME THE ROOM. Go on. Flee."

And so they did. The remaining guards dragged their pretzeled comrade with them along the floor. And when the oaken door slammed behind them, the Wizard Oddna and the Duke were the only people left in the room. 

"There," said the Wizard, "That's better."

"I apologize for my subjects," said the Duke, "they are a bit... provincial."

"Thick is the word I would have used."

"Would you care for some wine," asked the Duke as he draped his leg over the side of his chair and slumped with a false exhaustion that only comes with never having worked a day in your life.

"Get out," said the Wizard, as he considered the tapestry on the wall behind the throne. 

"Excuse me?"

"I said, get out. Abdicate. Leave this place. And take everyone with you."

"I wish that I could," said the Duke, "I never wanted to come to this damp, grey place to begin with."

"Ah, well there you go," said Oddna, "I love it when things are easy. Did you say there was wine?"

"Sadly," said the Duke.

"Sadly? I thought you said there was wine."

"Oh wine. We've got it by the barrelful. And by the bottleful in cabinet over there -- since you've run off all my servants, subjects and goat herders, I suggest you help yourself. All told this tower and keep contains more wine than I could drink in three lifetimes. Although the prospect of staying here for three lifetimes," the Duke chuckled as he made a slicing motion across his throat."

"I don't think you understand, this is a courtesy call. What I mean to say is that this request is for your benefit, not mine."

"Steady on, old boy," said the Duke. "I'm on your side. I'm ready to do as you command. You want this kingdom -- well this dismal little duchy, I say you can have it. Good riddance to fickle mountain weather, thick-ankled peasant girls and goat violators of every shape and stripe. But, here's the thing, I can't. The minute I leave my post, my family will know of it. In particular my Uncle Torvald, do you know my Uncle Torvald?"

"Can't say I have had the pleasure," said Oddna, fighting back an urge to engulf the Duke in flames with a clap of his hands. 

"I have the burden of carrying a great name. Weaveeston Prestidigitous RampartLion Toroble the 15th, in fact. And this name means that I am not free do what I would like. I am not free to marry who I like. I am not free to live where I like. I have been sent here, and if I abdicate, Torvald Toroble will have me killed. Either by assassin or generalship of an army on it's way to a glorious lost cause or perhaps just with a good old-fashioned hunting accident."

"How do you know?" asked Oddna, still trying to reason with him. 

"It's what he did to my father. Hunting "accident" and when dear old Dad survived that, then sent his very own doctor to poison the man."

"Damn it, man," cried Oddna, "I'm trying here. Do you realize how had I'm trying. I don't want to be the stereotypical Evil Wizard. Move in, blight the land, torment the villagers."

"I never suggested that you were," said the Duke, with a look of care on his face.

"I have been a good neighbor, have I not?"

"You have, no one could say different."

"I could have swept in from the East and just taken that mine and cavern system for myself. Killed all your minors, released horrible creatures into the countryside. Right? Could have done that, couldn't I."

"Yes, you could have, but I don't feel that you are the kind of --"

"Paid gold on the barrel head for it. Didn't I."

"You did, please, Oddna, what has gotten into you? You are a fine neighbor." said the Duke, trying to tell this powerful and somewhat crazed man what he wanted to hear. 

"Yes, I am," the Wizard said, calming enough to take a healthy gulp of wine. "I am a fine neighbor, but you, and I mean the royal you, Duke Robrecht, are not."

"Ugh, Robrecht as a name. Why the thought is simply ghastly."

"Not you, your subjects. The little people that infest the land."

"Ah, taxpayers," said the Duke, "Yes, my Uncle says I am here to farm them."

"Herd them? Would herd them be the word."

"Yes, I suppose it would. I am herd them until tax time. And then I shear them and release them back into their fields."





<!-- The conversation out -->

 

"No, I'll walk. I'm to upset to pull off the teleportation trick again. Would just imprison myself halfway through a tree."

"Well, take my coach, at least. No need for you to walk all the way back."

"No, no, I wouldn't hear of it. I've been an ass. I've barged in unannounced, I've hit your man with Wilhpson's spell of Annealing. Threatened you with ultimatums. I swear Weaveeston, on my mother's grave, the soil of which is indispensable for the making of certain potions, I never wanted to be another Evil wizard. A screeching, fire-throwing caricature of myself. But the world... the world will drive a man to it."

"Ah, hmm, yes." said the Duke. "You should meet my Aunt Etheline."

"Torvalds' wife?"

"Oh no, he had her killed long ago. Needlepoint accident. He has something of a penchant for killing relatives. No Etheline is his sister. And she is the ruthless one."

"Well, that makes me feel better."

"Better?"

"Yes, I would never do such a thing to my own family."

"Your extended family doesn't own and fight over estates and dominions that cover nearly a third of the known world."

"Perhaps you have a point. But I would draw the line at assassinating my own family."

"I do too," said the Duke, "But only because I don't have the means or talent to get away with it." 

"Oh and I should mention, I've dispatched a raiding party."

"Raiding party, well that doesn't sound so frighting."

"Of Orcs,"

"Orcs? What are those?"

"Riding wolves."

"Well whatever they are, they can't be very large, riding wolves."

"Gigantic wolves."

"Yes, but what is an Orc?"

"My latest work. Terrible, terribly murderously bloodthirsty creatures. Stronger and faster than a man. Some cultivars have tusks, other do not. They all have greyish-green skin, almost impervious to weapons -- if not for the constant interruptions I would have gotten that right. I do feel bad about it, but it seems the only way to get the peace in which I need to work."

"Well, I understand, you were upset, it's just a raiding party. Probably do the old town some good. A little raiding. Till up the soil, attract more adventurer's. Defend good ol' Robrecht."

"No, no that's not the point. You see, old boy, I mean to drive you out. Work salt into the earth so nothing will ever grow here again. A few thousand Orcs."



---

At first I though they would stop coming. You know, after most of the first wave fell into my traps and my pets had taken out the survivors. But they just kept coming. An endless horde of them. 

Most died on the upper levels, but the few that managed to 

So I have spies and turncoats, more diabolical traps to fashion. Strategems, force deployment strategies. But the problem is, it's a constant worry. A strain and a distraction from my real, important work. I tell you Weaveeston, I am close to isolating and controlling the very source of magic itself. Think of it. A deeper knowledge an understanding of the forces that shape our world than any man has ever had before."

"I know what forces shape our world, and sadly, it is heredity."

"And the power. The limitless power. It should be I that make this connection with the source. Lest this power fall in to the hands of some EVIL wizard."


----


Wait, how many people in the raiding party. I mean how many of these Horks 

"Orcs"

"Do you have?"

"Oh, a few thousand, by now I should say!"

"oh, well, why didn't you say so?"

"what difference does it make?"

"well if it two dozen our so, it would be a mere raiding party. But a thousand, perhaps two. Yes, two thousand?"

"I'm a wizard," said the Wizard, "Just not with numbers."

"Well, a quick look at the treasury will reveal that neither am I. But, anything over 500 is clearly an army."

"So,"

"Well, I wouldn't have abdicated, I would have been INVADED."

"Yes"



----





"To make more horrible things?"

"Oh no, "

Riding wolves," he added with a knowing raise of his very bushy eyebrows. 


<!-- AFTER HE MEETS THE INNKEEPER, he thinks ___ Maybe not the entire city, thought Oddna. Perhaps there were a few things worth saving -->

"I have dispatched an army to raze this city to the ground."

<!-- Weaveeston Prestidigitous RampartLion Toroble the 15th of his name. 
 -->


<!-- 

oddna was good for the Duke's rule. A common enemy. centralize power

but the duke's rule wasn't good for oddna. He got fed up with 

courtesy call. Spread the word, Robrecht is mine. 

And good riddance. Said the Duke. I never wanted it and I'm not sure why anyone would. 

"Closed, no passage."
 
"Seems a trifle extreme."


"you have an army? Where did you get an army? The only army for hire is the Bereft Companions, and they are employed, I have it on good account, by the southeron kingdoms. 

"I did not *hire* an army, my good man. I grew one. In my vats."

"Grew one?"

Yes, said Oddna, his gaze never wavering, "Grew."

Strike the High Councilor down when he hides behind the tapestry. 



Well, whatever, my army is dispatched. Stay or go. If you are killed, I'm sure they will send someone 


 -->


In general, the Duke had little respect for magicians, clowns, bards and court jesters. In his youth he had been known to light their clothing on fire. Which, because they were no relation to the royal family, was seen as wit of the first rank. His sense of humor had not advanced much since those days. 

But the man who stood before him, was the genuine article.

This was how the Duke had first ascertained that Oddna, the Overlord of what he styled his "proving grounds" (formerly known as one of the richest mines of gemstone quality quartz in the world)  


The tapestry behind the throne, or more accurately Ducal seat of Robrecht, depicted was the greatest moment in the history of the awkward, almost-kingdom sized state. It was two bands of thugs, meeting on the very rock on which the Duke sat. And at the center of them was the great apocryphal hero of the land. A man  known only as Lloyd. He stood in the middle of the scene, which was supposed to be a mighty battle between the town of Brecht on the right bank of the River Swift and the town of Ro on the left bank. In the poorly woven tapestry, Lloyd was seen to be bending a spear, thus signifying 

In Mercia, where the Duke was from, there were lots of tapestries. They depicted great battles, great hunts, great anything really. And what made them great was that a lot of blood was being shed in them. Heroes defeating, beheading, and in one tiny corner of one gigantic tapestry that he remembered from his youth, sodomizing the barbaric enemies of Mercia.

The Duke could understand no greatness that could come from brokering the peace. Even if Lloyd had won an arm wrestling match to ensure that the new town would be known as Robrecht rather than Brechtro. 

And he slammed the stone door shut behind him. Or he would have, if the corner of the tapestry has not caught in the sill. The hell with it, thought the Duke, it's not like anybody in that accursed town of goat-fuckers is going to live through the end of the week. 

And with that he descended deep into the spire to a secret dock far below. There were plenty of boats, royalty always having to make an escape in the event that the peasantry grew wise to what a raw deal they were getting and rose up in defiance. If he survived what was sure to be an uncomfortable trip down the river, he would soon reach his family's holdings in the Southern Kingdoms. He knew that he would never be a king after this. But at least he 

Besides, as the wizard said, he had put paid to nearly 10,000 men and women who had seen fit to try and stop him. What other reward could a hero expect. Better to be a serf than a hero. 

No, thought the Duke, from here on in I will be royalty living in exile. Fat days in the sun. His shrewish wife, many scheming mistresses and the clear wine of the Southlands. Vats and vats of it.

The roaring of the river grew closer. The Duke's stomach churned uncomfortably. He hated boats. 



----

Look here, I order my horrible creatures to do horrible things to anyone who braves the roads, and still you do nothing. 

"No, you work in my favor, you see. Fewer trading parties, fewer taxes. Fewer taxes will incite the wrath of my Uncle Torvald."

"Yes, I thought that was a bad thing?" asked the Wizard, who's naturally quick and tricky mind was getting lost in the twisted and tortured permutations of family politics. 

"It is, but not for me. He won't trust me with an army, as I am both wrathful and totally incompetent. So he will come at the head of heavy cavalry and ride you don't. Or," he quickly added, seeing the offended pride rising red on the Wizard's face, "You will smite his army utterly from the face of the earth. Either of which solves my problem equally well."



"So you are saying that there's no way that I will be 

"We'll that's a relief. 


Working to set up the scene where Boltac comes to an empty throne room -- 

Add a scene where the kid bashes the window of the store 


----

Oh that's okay, said Oddna with a smile. Wizards have a way of not being seen when they don't want to be. With a wave of his hand he transformed himself completely. The somber man in black robes witha with a shaven head and sunken eyes was gone. In his place stood a young man who could pass as a courtier in any of the richest kingdoms on the continent. Tights, a jerkin of crushed velvet adorned with a stripe of brilliant red fabric. With a flourish he drew his sword, a whisker-thin, needle-sharp dueling sword that would be all but useless where real men did battle in desperate situation. He saluted the Duke with it, raising the guard to the level of his eyes before sweeping it backward in an elaborate and courtly bow. 

"I shall take my leave of you my good Duke, in the hopes that you will likewise take your leave of this benighted place. Return the marble and gilded courts of Mercia. Robrecht is lost to the Torobles."

"I will leave the whole clammy, crumbly mess to you Oddna," 

"Look to your safety. And I shall look to mine. Let not dawn catch you "

"
Knowledge and nobility. There is precious little of either left in the world. None of it should be wasted.  




